---
layout: post
title:  "GTC 2022"
summary: "Notes from NVIDIA's GPU Technology Conference"
author: radiositymap
date: '2022-09-09'
category: ['graphics', 'gpu']
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/2022-09-22-gtc.jpg
usemathjax: true
permalink: /blog/gtc-2022/
---

It's that time of the year again! For the third year in a row, GTC is being held online, which means I have free access to as many conferences, technical talks and even workshops as I want (some workshops are paid though).

This year, there seems to be a lot more on high-performance computing and AI, and much fewer resources on games and graphics.

This post is non-technical; I just want to reflect on the new features and advancements we have, and how it affects us users, especially since the last time I attended GTC.

# Keynote

NVIDIA introduced the latest generation of GPUs, which has faster hardware, more dedicated compute units and a new scheduler to improve memory coalescing and improve ray tracing performance.

## Workload Scheduler

The scheduler is an especially cool new feature since I remember manually ensuring coalesced memory access back in school. This would probably have been a pain point for developers. With automatic scheduling, it's even better for ray tracing, where the programmer does't have any control over the ray memory access.

## DLSS3

They also announced DLSS3, which apparently is an improvement upon their previous DLSS system which predicts pixels. This new AI-based sampler can apparently generate the entire future frame. It sounds pretty cool and there's a talk just on this new feature, which I'll view and maybe do a write-up on when I have time.

## Omniverse

NVIDIA also announced Omniverse. I'm not sure if they've announced it before but it's been in beta for a while. If I'm not wrong, the marbles demo in 2020 was created with Omniverse so the announcement this year should be the official launch.

This is also a really cool tool that basically uses USD to synchronise 3D content through different content creating software like game engines and 3D modelling software. There's something different since 2020, which is that they're launching their own cloud-based solution to run the server, whereas previously I think they required hardware purchase. It seems that they've included remote rendering as well.

The rest of the keynote talk is on advancements in AI, so I won't do a write-up on those.

## Ending Notes

I'd say they've launched a lot of higher-level solutions, that are either ready for users or general developers. I hope these go to good use. I remember NVIDIA SDKs being prohibitively difficult for developers to use, but it looks like things have improved a lot on this front. There's still a lot of merit in having a good technical foundation though, just that there's no need to struggle so much with the APIs anymore.

There's a review of ray-tracing techniques and advancements so far, and a talk on USD assets for simulation, as well as one on DLSS-based frame generation. These are probably the ones I'll do a write-up on when I get around to viewing them.
