---
layout: post
title:  "GTC 2022 Part 2"
summary: "More notes from NVIDIA's GPU Technology Conference"
author: radiositymap
date: '2022-10-08'
category: ['graphics', 'gpu']
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/2022-09-22-gtc.jpg
usemathjax: false
permalink: /blog/gtc-2022-part-2/
---

I had a look at the review of ray tracing techniques presented in GTC 2022. The following are my notes on this.

# Real-Time Ray Tracing

The Holy Grail of ray tracing research has been to implement full path tracing in real time. One of the biggest obstacles to this is the large number of rays required to sample the scene without generating too much visible noise.

Most of the research tackling this problem have gone towards biased sampling techniques to reduce the total number of rays required to render the same scene. Some of these include importance sampling and manifold exploration (using Markov Chain).

Another area of difficulty is that some of the algorithms are not well optiised to the hardware.

The review I saw summarised 4 papers important to the progress of real-time path tracing which has almost been achieved now.

## Voxel Cone Tracing

[Crassin et al. 2011. Interactive Indirect Illumination Using Voxel Cone Tracing](https://research.nvidia.com/sites/default/files/publications/GIVoxels-pg2011-authors.pdf)

This technique uses a sparse voxel octree as a ray optimisation technique, and reduces computation by only using two bounces per ray. The geometry shader was used to implement the voxel representation. Visual effects are of course not as complete due to these limitations, and memory use was very high, but this was one of the first breakthroughs towards real-time ray tracing.


## ReSTIR

[Bitterli et al. 2020. Spatiotemporal reservoir resampling for real-time ray tracing with dynamic direct lighting](https://research.nvidia.com/sites/default/files/pubs/2020-07_Spatiotemporal-reservoir-resampling/ReSTIR.pdf)

This technique reuses results of spatial and temporal resampling for performance improvements. It can handle dynamism in the scene (changing objects/light sources) an runs in close to real time (order of ms per frame).

## Improvements on ReSTIR

[Wyman and Panteleev. 2021. Rearchitecting Spatiotemporal Resampling for Production](https://research.nvidia.com/publication/2021-07_rearchitecting-spatiotemporal-resampling-production)

This paper presents algorithmic improvements over the previous technique (ReSTIR). ReSTIR was rearchitected to remove unnecessary shading and improve memory fetching among other things. This improved performance to around 12 ms per frame.

## GRIS

[Lin and Kettunen et al. 2022. Generalized resampled importance sampling: foundations of ReSTIR](https://research.nvidia.com/publication/2022-07_generalized-resampled-importance-sampling-foundations-restir).

This technique is an improvement on importance sampling, and can target areas with high frequency noise that would usually be undersampled, such as areas with caustic lighting. Fewer samples are used to generate each pixel.

## Areas for Improvement

Currently, these path tracing techniques can run in the domain of real time, and can handle dynamism in the objects and lighting. Areas requiring many light bounces now also look decent, but specular and glossy reflections are still not so detailed.
